Learning a linear regression model means estimating the values of the coefficients used in the representation with the data that we have available.

In this section we will take a brief look at four techniques to prepare a linear regression model. This is not enough information to implement them from scratch, but enough to get a flavor of the computation and trade-offs involved.

There are many more techniques because the model is so well studied. Take note of Ordinary Least Squares because it is the most common method used in general. Also take note of Gradient Descent as it is the most common technique taught in machine learning classes.

1. Simple Linear Regression
Linear Regression is a machine learning algorithm based on supervised learning. It performs a regression task. Regression models a target prediction value based on independent variables. It is mostly used for finding out the relationship between variables and forecasting. Different regression models differ based on – the kind of relationship between dependent and independent variables they are considering, and the number of independent variables getting used.

Linear regression analysis is used to predict the value of a variable based on the value of another variable. The variable you want to predict is called the dependent variable. The variable you are using to predict the other variable's value is called the independent variable.
With simple linear regression when we have a single input, we can use statistics to estimate the coefficients.

This requires that you calculate statistical properties from the data such as means, standard deviations, correlations and covariance. All of the data must be available to traverse and calculate statistics.

This is fun as an exercise in excel, but not really useful in practice.

Ordinary Least Squares
When we have more than one input we can use Ordinary Least Squares to estimate the values of the coefficients.

The Ordinary Least Squares procedure seeks to minimize the sum of the squared residuals. This means that given a regression line through the data we calculate the distance from each data point to the regression line, square it, and sum all of the squared errors together. This is the quantity that ordinary least squares seeks to minimize.

This approach treats the data as a matrix and uses linear algebra operations to estimate the optimal values for the coefficients. It means that all of the data must be available and you must have enough memory to fit the data and perform matrix operations.

Linear Regression for Machine Learning
by Jason Brownlee on March 25, 2016 in Machine Learning Algorithms
Tweet Tweet  Share
Last Updated on August 15, 2020

Linear regression is perhaps one of the most well known and well understood algorithms in statistics and machine learning.

In this post you will discover the linear regression algorithm, how it works and how you can best use it in on your machine learning projects. In this post you will learn:

Why linear regression belongs to both statistics and machine learning.
The many names by which linear regression is known.
The representation and learning algorithms used to create a linear regression model.
How to best prepare your data when modeling using linear regression.
You do not need to know any statistics or linear algebra to understand linear regression. This is a gentle high-level introduction to the technique to give you enough background to be able to use it effectively on your own problems.

Kick-start your project with my new book Master Machine Learning Algorithms, including step-by-step tutorials and the Excel Spreadsheet files for all examples.

Let’s get started.

Linear Regression for Machine Learning
Linear Regression for Machine Learning
Photo by Nicolas Raymond, some rights reserved.

Isn’t Linear Regression from Statistics?
Before we dive into the details of linear regression, you may be asking yourself why we are looking at this algorithm.

Isn’t it a technique from statistics?

Machine learning, more specifically the field of predictive modeling is primarily concerned with minimizing the error of a model or making the most accurate predictions possible, at the expense of explainability. In applied machine learning we will borrow, reuse and steal algorithms from many different fields, including statistics and use them towards these ends.

As such, linear regression was developed in the field of statistics and is studied as a model for understanding the relationship between input and output numerical variables, but has been borrowed by machine learning. It is both a statistical algorithm and a machine learning algorithm.

Next, let’s review some of the common names used to refer to a linear regression model.




Linear Regression Model Representation
Linear regression is an attractive model because the representation is so simple.

The representation is a linear equation that combines a specific set of input values (x) the solution to which is the predicted output for that set of input values (y). As such, both the input values (x) and the output value are numeric.

The linear equation assigns one scale factor to each input value or column, called a coefficient and represented by the capital Greek letter Beta (B). One additional coefficient is also added, giving the line an additional degree of freedom (e.g. moving up and down on a two-dimensional plot) and is often called the intercept or the bias coefficient.

For example, in a simple regression problem (a single x and a single y), the form of the model would be:

y = B0 + B1*x

In higher dimensions when we have more than one input (x), the line is called a plane or a hyper-plane. The representation therefore is the form of the equation and the specific values used for the coefficients (e.g. B0 and B1 in the above example).

It is common to talk about the complexity of a regression model like linear regression. This refers to the number of coefficients used in the model.

When a coefficient becomes zero, it effectively removes the influence of the input variable on the model and therefore from the prediction made from the model (0 * x = 0). This becomes  relevant if you look at regularization methods that change the learning algorithm to reduce the complexity of regression models by putting pressure on the absolute size of the coefficients, driving some to zero.

Now that we understand the representation used for a linear regression model, let’s review some ways that we can learn this representation from data.

What is Linear Regression?
What is Linear Regression?
Photo by Estitxu Carton, some rights reserved.

Linear Regression Learning the Model
Learning a linear regression model means estimating the values of the coefficients used in the representation with the data that we have available.
In this section we will take a brief look at four techniques to prepare a linear regression model. This is not enough information to implement them from scratch, but enough to get a flavor of the computation and trade-offs involved.
There are many more techniques because the model is so well studied. Take note of Ordinary Least Squares because it is the most common method used in general. Also take note of Gradient Descent as it is the most common technique taught in machine learning classes.

1. Simple Linear Regression
With simple linear regression when we have a single input, we can use statistics to estimate the coefficients.
This requires that you calculate statistical properties from the data such as means, standard deviations, correlations and covariance. All of the data must be available to traverse and calculate statistics.
This is fun as an exercise in excel, but not really useful in practice.


2. Ordinary Least Squares
When we have more than one input we can use Ordinary Least Squares to estimate the values of the coefficients.
The Ordinary Least Squares procedure seeks to minimize the sum of the squared residuals. This means that given a regression line through the data we calculate the distance from each data point to the regression line, square it, and sum all of the squared errors together. This is the quantity that ordinary least squares seeks to minimize.
This approach treats the data as a matrix and uses linear algebra operations to estimate the optimal values for the coefficients. It means that all of the data must be available and you must have enough memory to fit the data and perform matrix operations.
It is unusual to implement the Ordinary Least Squares procedure yourself unless as an exercise in linear algebra. It is more likely that you will call a procedure in a linear algebra library. This procedure is very fast to calculate.

3. Gradient Descent
When there are one or more inputs you can use a process of optimizing the values of the coefficients by iteratively minimizing the error of the model on your training data.

This operation is called Gradient Descent and works by starting with random values for each coefficient. The sum of the squared errors are calculated for each pair of input and output values. A learning rate is used as a scale factor and the coefficients are updated in the direction towards minimizing the error. The process is repeated until a minimum sum squared error is achieved or no further improvement is possible.

When using this method, you must select a learning rate (alpha) parameter that determines the size of the improvement step to take on each iteration of the procedure.

Gradient descent is often taught using a linear regression model because it is relatively straightforward to understand. In practice, it is useful when you have a very large dataset either in the number of rows or the number of columns that may not fit into memory.