Classification on the basis how machine learning model is trained at production level 

What is production ?
The server at which ML is gonna run 

Types ML 
1) Batch Learning 
2) Offline Learning

While you may not know batch or offline learning by name, you surely know how it works. It’s the standard approach to machine learning. Basically, you source a dataset and build a model on the whole dataset at once. This is why it’s called batch learning. You may be wondering why it goes by yet another name: offline learning. That’s because offline learning is the polar opposite of another machine learning approach that you may not even be aware of. It’s called online learning and you should know what it can do for you.

Objective

My objective in this post is to introduce you to online learning, describe its use cases, and show you how to get started in Scikit-learn. To help motivate things, know that online learning is a powerful tool that opens up a whole new world. It’s a tool you can add to your toolbox, giving you capabilities to tackle problems that may have once been beyond your reach.

Offline vs Online Learning

So what differentiates offline and online learning? In the simplest sense, offline learning is an approach that ingests all the data at one time to build a model whereas online learning is an approach that ingests data one observation at a time. There’s a perfect one-to-one analogy here for those familiar with Gradient Descent. Offline learning, also known as batch learning, is akin to batch gradient descent. Online learning, on the other hand, is the analog of stochastic gradient descent. In fact, as we’ll see, implementing online learning in Scikit-learn will utilize stochastic gradient descent with a variety of loss functions to create online learning versions of algorithms like logistic regression and support vector machines. There’s more to online learning, though.

Online learning is data efficient and adaptable. Online learning is data efficient because once data has been consumed it is no longer required. Technically, this means you don’t have to store your data. Online learning is adapatable because it makes no assumption about the distribution of your data. As your data distribution morphs or drifts, due to say changing customer behavior, the model can adapt on-the-fly to keep pace with trends in real-time. In order to do something similar with offline learning you’d have to create a sliding window of your data and retrain every time. And if you’ve been paying attention, you surely noticed that you can use this methodology to do streaming analytics.